TARA KLAMP Disposable Circumcision Device for non-invasive male
circumcision
LAST FRONTIER INCIRCUMCISION SURGERY THE WORLD'S FIRST EVER DEVICE
FOR NON-INVASIVE MALE CIRCUMCISIONS
TARA KLAMP.....A DISPOSABLE CIRCUMCISION DEVICE CONTENTS
DESCRIPTION OF
INVENTION........................................................1
--Introduction--The Invention
ADVANTAGES OF THE DISPOSABLE CIRCUMCISION DEVICE...................2
DIRECT COST AND BENEFIT...............................................3
--To the Health Service--To the Patient--Summary--Conclusion
CIRCUMCISION PROCEDURE..........................................4
--Surgical Procedure--Photograph on :- (Under Construction)
--Adult circumcision.................................................6
--Small children
circumcision..........................................................9
--Other Method........................................................11
HIGHLIGHTS AND AWARDS RECEIVED FOR INVENTION.......................12
SCIENTIFIC ABSTRACTS................................................13




Page 1
DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION
A DISPOSABLE CIRCUMCISION DEVICE
INTRODUCTION
Circumcision is one of the commonest surgeries performed all over
the world. It is generally performed either in a surgical theater,
at home or as in some countries even at the roadsides or in the
bush  etc.  Circumcision methods vary in different regions and
problems e.g. infections, accidental amputations of the glans penis,
bleeding etc. continue to occur. This happens even in circumcisions
performed in an operating theater. This research identified that
most of these problems continue to occur because in all the
circumcisions methods or devices invented so far,  the surgery is
of  invasive type.  This invention enables circumcisions to be
performed not only safely and easily but also ----- for the first
time in surgical history ----- enables circumcisions to be performed
just as aseptically,  at home, on the roadsides or out there in
the bush,  as in an operating theater. These problems are prevented
because the surgery performed by this device is  of non-invasive
type [sic].

THE  INVENTION
This is a pre-sterilized disposable device and is meant for Single
Use only.  It is of unitary construction and does not require to
be assembled before use, so that even a para-medic can use it with
ease,  with minimal training.  Based on a concept of non-invasive
surgery  -----  described  for the first time ever,  in surgical
history (confirmed by The Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland )
-----  by the inventor himself, this device does not create an open
wound. Hence it does not require any sutures, ligatures or bandages.




Page 2
ADVANTAGES OF THE DISPOSABLE CIRCUMCISION DEVICE SAFE Protects
against accidental amputation of Glans Penis and other injuries.
EASY Requires minimal training FAST Fast circumcision procedure as
compared to normal method USE ANYWHERE Can be used anywhere e.g.
at home, road-sides or in the bush without fear of infections from
non-hygienic places.  NO CAUTERIZATION No cauterization or other
harmful agents are  necessary BLOODLESS There is no bleeding during
and after the surgery.  NO SUTURES No sutures are necessary.  NO
LIGATURES No ligatures are necessary NO BANDAGES No bandages are
necessary as there is no post-surgical bleeding or oozing.  NO AGE
RESTRICTIONS Can be used from infants to adults.  NO INFECTIONS
Because no open wound is created, it safeguards against elements
in the external environment.  NO CROSS-INFECTIONS Protects against
cross-infections between circumcisor and patient during the surgery
e.g. HIV, Hepatitis etc.  PRE-STERILIZED AND USE ONCE ONLY Risk of
cross-infections e.g. HIV, hepatitis etc, from  inadequately
sterilized  re-usable instruments eliminated.  IMMEDIATE RETURN TO
ROUTINE Patient can move about and may return to work immediately
after circumcision.  NO BATHING RESTRICTIONS Patient may have his
bath or shower immediately after circumcision.  GOOD  COSMETIC
RESULT When healed, the circumcision results in a uniformly and
evenly cut  and cosmetically pleasing appearance NATIONAL  COSTS
REDUCED The Overall National Economic considerations on circumcision
cost etc., are also improved considerably.  INDIVIDUAL  BENEFITS
Expenses saved and inconvenience avoided.




Page 3
Direct Cost & Benefit to the :- Health Service Patient Avoids use
of operating room.
 -can be performed at clinics, homes,
   religious sites.

Avoids use of ancillary equipment.
 -Entire equipment in a kit.  Pre-sterilized & disposable
-Expenses saved.  - autoclaving costs avoided.  Avoids cost of
dressing, sutures etc.
 -Expenses saved.  Avoids cross infections
 -Safeguards personal health against hospital
   infection.  Nursing time & attention reduced
 -follow-up visit reduced. Expenses saved May return to work after
surgery.
 -Reduced work time lost through medical
   leave.  Overall National Economic consideration -Overall expenses
reduced.                                on circumcision cost etc.
reduced.  Summary World Wide patent protection until year 2010 or
later.  Tara KLamp is designed for Single use only.  Tara KLamp is
a direct replacement to current method of circumcision.  Tara KLamp
device can be used for infant and adult -- All Sizes.  Tara KLamp
is a time saving device for circumcision as compare to other methods.
Tara KLamp is invented by a doctor who has done many circumcisions
in his medical career.  Tara KLamp has been certified to conform
to Islamic religious circumcision by the Prime Minister's Department
in Malaysia.  Conclusion The use of Tara KLamp can be encouraged
on a national scale as part of the primary health care program of
a country as this method is practical and inexpensive. As it
addresses problems such as bleeding, infections e.g. Hepatitis,
HIV etc. and deaths associated with circumcision, it has enormous
implication in circumcision surgery, both to individuals and nations
throughout the world.




Page 4
Circumcision Procedure 
using the Tara KLamp Disposable Non-invasive Circumcision Device
The penis is first cleansed with sterilizing fluids.  Use surgical
marking pen to mark the level on the skin of the prepuce where the
circumcision is to be performed.  This is the level where the clamp
is to be applied.  This prevents too much pulling of the prepuce
and thus avoids removal of too much tissue.  Gently retract the
prepuce.  Free any adhesions, if they are present. [CIRP note:
Lysis of the synechia is definitely invasive and painful in the
case of infant circumcision: See 'PlastiBell' method.]  As shown,
apply Vaseline:- to the inner and outer surfaces of the lower end
of the tubular part and to the inner and upper part of the ring.
This prevents the tissue from sticking to the device over the next
few days.  Place the tubular part of the clamp over the glans, so
that the glans is covered by the tube.  The prepuce is now pulled
over the rim of the tube.  Adjust the prepuce over the tube so that
the level which has been marked earlier is just above the rim of
the tube.




Page 5
After adjusting the level of the  prepuce, hold the prepuce firmly
with the fingers.  A grip-like pressure is applied on the two arms.
As this pressure is increased, the two arms are brought closer to
the locking mechanisms on the tube.  Resistance to further movement
of the arms is felt when the arms come in contact with the locking
mechanisms on the device.  Apply further pressure on the arms until
two clicks are heard and felt.  This means that the arms are already
locked and the necessary occlusion has been obtained.  With the
tissue cutter provided, the prepuce that is distal to the clamping
ring is cut away at the angle between the tube and the clamping
ring.  Although there is no bleeding, the tube is cleaned with a
clean gauze and ointment is applied at the cut edge.  Apply the
ointment a few times daily, during the next few days.  The device
is allowed to remain on the penis for the next few days.  Urine is
easily voided through the distal opening.
p



Page 12
OTHER HIGHLIGHTS AND AWARDS RECEIVED FOR INVENTION :
In 1993,a grant of M$ 163,336.00 for Research & Development by the
Government of Malaysia awarded for development of the Tara KLamp
Circumcision Device.  The Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland
confirmed in May 1995 that  " the concept is an interesting one
and this method of surgery has never been described before certainly
not for the elective operation of male circumcision ".  This device
has been approved as " PATENTABLE "  by the PCT, The European Patent
Office ( Munich, Germany ) and many member countries under  the
Paris Convention.  This has paved the way for the  grant  of  "
LETTERS PATENT "   in  many designated countries throughout the
world. Countries include OAPI, Canada, Europe, USA, Japan and
various countries under The Paris Convention  (e.g. Malaysia, China,
Taiwan,  India,  Indonesia,  India,  Pakistan,  Bangladesh,  Iran,
Iraq, The Middle East countries, Egypt, Sudan etc. ).  A paper on
"Circumcision Surgery : A Safe and Easy Method by Non-invasive
Means"  was  presented  at the 29th. Annual Conference of the
Urological Society of India at Bangalore ( 25-28 January 1995 ).
Paper was well received and procedure was described as a breakthrough..
A paper ----- the world's first ever description ----- on Non-invasive
circumcision was first presented at the 5th. North Zone Convention
Urological Society of India at Jaipur (6-8 October 1995). The paper
was acclaimed as presenting a completely new  surgical approach
and remarks that this was could  be the " last frontier in circumcision
surgery "   were made. The inventor was presented a medal and a
special gift in appreciation.  A paper on both the Non-invasive
Concept as well as Bloodless Circumcision has been accepted for
presentation at the 4th. International Congress of Tropical Pediatrics
in July.  MINDEX/INNOTEX 1995 :  BRONZE  MEDAL Awarded Gold Medal
(1st prize) in the Medicine, Surgery, Hygiene and Orthopedics
category at 24th International Exhibition Of Inventions, Geneva,
19th-28th April 1996.  Awarded Gold Medal of Excellence from Maroc
de I'invention - under the High Patronage of  His Majesty the King
Hassan II of Morocco.




Page 13
Subject:   Circumcision Surgery :  A safe and easy method by
non-invasive means Circumcision is one of the most commonly performed
surgeries all over the world. Techniques or methods in circumcision
surgery vary in different regions and in different cultures and as
a result, many problems e.g. infections, accidental amputations of
the glans penis, bleeding etc. still continue to persist.  As a
compelling need to address these problems was felt, a research
effort on circumcision surgery was initiated on two fronts in
Malaysia, over two decades ago. Initially, a study in depth, to
look into the current state of circumcision surgery, was undertaken.
This was to study :  The surgical aspects of all known circumcision
procedures B. Whether the various problems could be prevented by
another surgical
   technique.  Interestingly, the above study revealed that a
potentially  safer and aseptic circumcision could be attainable,
if the surgery was performed by using the body's ability to reject
non-viable tissues by non-invasive means. This was however, hampered
by lack of any established knowledge or information in general
surgery,  on absolute non-invasive surgical techniques, that could
be used. A  further effort was then directed to explore this
possibility as follows:  To describe a  safe concept for non-invasive
surgery based on sound surgical reasoning, To design a circumcision
device based on this concept.  As a result, use is made of the
ability of the body to reject non-viable tissue, as a clinical
tool. The procedure for successful use of this ability, which I
term as  CLINICALLY  INDUCED, COMPLETE AND TOTAL NON-INVASIVE
ASEPTIC OCCLUSION is dependent on the concomitant use of a number
of factors which do not involve the use of any invasive means or
substances.




Page 14
Based on the above concept, a disposable circumcision device was
invented recently.  The device enables circumcisions to be performed
safely and easily with the following benefits:  Circumcision can
be performed in a few minutes and does not involve the use of
electro-cautery,  chemical or other harmful means.  There is no
active bleeding during the surgery or in the post-circumcision
period.  There is no need for any sutures or ligatures or any
dressings to be applied after the circumcision has been performed.
There is minimal need for medication.  It can be performed with
ease and aseptically at home or at religious sites and there is no
need for an operating room.  Wound healing is faster and therefore
able to return to work earlier.  Review at hospital nil. Safeguards
personal health against  infections both during the surgery and in
the post-surgical period.  It is a " Use Once Only " device and
therefore prevents cross-infection e.g. acquired diseases, AIDS,
hepatitis etc.  Expenses saved and inconvenience avoided.  Other
aspects pertaining to this research  are as follows:  This research
was funded in part, by the Government of Malaysia.  The device has
already been designated as an Invention.  Patent Protection status
has already been accorded by the Patent Cooperation Treaty of World
Intellectual Property Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.  Patent
Protection has also been accorded in many countries which are
members of The Paris Convention.

Summary
This has tremendous beneficial implications for circumcisions
throughout the world. as in some countries, circumcisions are
performed by barbers generally at road-sides. They use a barber-
knife with the scantiest regard for aseptic procedures. In Africa,
circumcisions are generally performed in the bush by traditional
circumcisers. Besides post-circumcision deaths, various other
problems e.g. infections, accidental amputations of the glans penis,
bleeding etc. still continue to persist. This invention adequately
addresses this situation. In brief, it enables circumcisions to be
performed just as aseptically in the home or out there in the bush,
as in the operating theater.

Reference :
Paper presented at :     
5th North Zone Convention Urological Society of India,
                             October 6-8, 1995
             Urology Development and Research Centre,
                      S. M. S. Hospital, Jaipur, India
By                           :
Dr. T. Gurcharan Singh
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia




Page 15
USICON 95-96
 24th to 28th January 1996.
NATIONAL SCIENCE SEMINAR COMPLEX
(J.N. TATA AUDITORIUM), INDIAN INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE,
BANGALORE 560 012
SCIENTIFIC ABSTRACTS
Circumcision Surgery  :  A Safe and Easy Method by Non-invasive
      Means.
Dr. T. Gurcharan Singh
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Circumcision is one of the most commonly performed surgeries all
over the world. Techniques in circumcision vary in different regions
and in different cultures. In some countries, circumcisions are
performed by barbers generally at road-sides. In Africa, circumcisions
are generally performed in the bush by traditional circumcisers.
Besides post circumcision deaths, various other problems e.g.
infections, accidental amputation of the glans penis, bleeding etc.
still continue to persist. Keeping in mind all these facts a need
for a safe and easy method of circumcision was felt.  Herein I
report the use of a disposable circumcision device and the technique
of its use which has already been designated as an invention.
Clamping of the fore-skin with proper tension leads to aseptic
gangrene which does not require any suture material or electrocautery
for haemostasis. Besides this it has several advantages such as it
can be performed at home or at religious site, less time consuming,
loss of work-days because of surgery is significantly less. Wound
infection and cross infection are significantly less as it is a
disposable device, less post circumcision medication and pain are
also the observed advantages.


TARA KLAMP
KINDER CUT
CIRCUMCISION 
SURGERY
Name of Inventor
Dr. T. Gurcharan Singh
Email : gurchs@taramed.pc.my
Marketed by
Tara KLamp Healthcare Products Company
# 1 Ground Floor Office, Equatorial Penang, 
1 Jalan Bukit Jambul, 11900 Penang.
Tel/Fax : 603-6428653
Email: tara@mol.com.my
Mr. Mark Chang 
Director of Sales and Marketing
Email : mark@mol.com.my
Mr. Tan Chew Lian
Sales and Marketing Manager
Email : tcl@mol.com.my


[Robert R. Meigs]
