MEDICAL LITIGATION ALERT, VOL 4 ISSUE 11 (JULY 1996): Pages 24-25.

$1,200,000 RECOVERY - MEDICAL MALPRACTICE/INFORMED CONSENT -
FAILURE TO ADVISE PARENTS OF THREE YEAR OLD THAT MOHEL
RATHER THAN PHYSICIAN WOULD BE PERFORMING CIRCUMCISION -
SEVERANCE OF HEAD OF PENIS.

     This was a medical malpractice action in which the
plaintiff parents of a three-year-old Jewish Russian
Immigrant contended that the initial defendant, a Mohel, who
is a non-physician trained in performing circumcisions,
negligently severed the head of the penis during the
procedure which was performed at the defendant out-patient
facility.  The plaintiff contended that the defendant
urologist, who was listed as the operating surgeon on the
consent form, and the defendant outpatient facility at which
the procedure was performed, failed to obtain the informed
consent of the parents whom, the plaintiff contended, were
advised that the procedure would be performed by the
urologist.  The plaintiff also contended that the defendant
urologist negligently opted to administer a local anesthetic
into the penis which the plaintiff contended was unnecessary
because of the use of a general anesthetic and that the
local cause a normal risk of swelling which complicated the
work then performed by the Mohel.  The Mohel was uninsured
and filed for bankruptcy.


     The plaintiffs contended that after emigrating to this
country, they desired that their son undergo the
circumcision which was generally not performed in the then
Soviet Union.  The parents contacted a religious
organization who referred the parents to the defendant
out-patient facility.  The defendants contended that this
organization had arranged the surgery, had advised the
parents that the urologist would perform the circumcision
and the urologist named this organization as a third-party
defendant.  The plaintiff maintained that the defendant
outpatient facility's nurse had provided the consent form
which listed the urologist and that this nurse's signature
was on the form reflecting that she had obtained the signed
consent form of the parents.

     The plaintiffs expert urologist testified that the
severance would not occur in the absence of negligence.  The
expert further contended that in view of the fact that the
procedure was not performed on a newborn baby, it was much
more complicated and should have been performed by a
physician rather than a Mohel.  THe expert further contended
that the urologist deviated in administering the local
anesthetic agent Lydocaine.  The expert contended that the
local was unnecessary because of the use of the local was
appropriate because of anticipated post-surgical pain.  The
defendant further denied that any swelling occurred.  The
plaintiff maintained that the defendants could not offer any
explanation as to the manner in which such an injury could
occur in the absence of negligence.

     The evidence disclosed that after the severance, the
defendant urologist attempted to reattach the penis.  The
plaintiff was then transferred to the non-party Bellevue
hospital by ambulance.  The evidence disclosed that during
the course of the next several week period, approximately
80% of the head necrosed.  The plaintiff contended that
although future cosmetic surgery may be available, he will
permanently suffer a very significant cosmetic deficit.  The
plaintiff further maintained that sexual sensation will be
drastically reduced.  The plaintiff's expert clinical
psychologist maintained that it is very likely that the
injury will cause a significant psychological reaction and
the plaintiff contended that the combination of diminished
sensation and psychological reaction will probably result in
difficulties with impotency.  The defendant denied that the
sexual sensation will be significantly diminished and
further contended that outlooks for cosmetic surgery are
significantly better than claimed.  The evidence disclosed
that the infant plaintiff can urinate normally.

     The case settled after approximately one month of trial
for $1,200,000 with the out-patient facility contributing
$500,000, the urologist $550,000 and the third party
defendant $150,000.

Experts:

Plaintiff's expert general surgeon: Richard Bassin from
Queens.  Plaintiff's expert urologist: Jack Mydlo from
Brooklyn.  Plaintiff's clinical psychologist:  Barry Protter
from Bronx, N. Y.

REFERENCE:  Bronx County, N. Y. Pltf: Nozik. Index No.
20875/90; Judge Gerald Esposito, 11-22-95.

MEDICAL LITIGATION ALERT, VOL 4 ISSUE 11 (JULY 1996): Pages
24-25.
